# Tanzania-Waterpoint-Functionality-Classification
Tanzania faces a water and sanitation crisis that affects its population of 59 million. About 28% of this population, around 16 million people, lack access to safe water. Additionally, a substantial 73%, or approximately 44 million people, lack access to properly managed household sanitation facilities.
Background: Currently, the people of Tanzania have poor access to clean drinking water throughout the entire country. Approximately 47% of all Tanzanian citizens do not have access to clean drinking water. Over $1.4 billion dollars in foreign aid has been giving to Tanzania in an attempt to help fix the freshwater crisis. However, the Tanzanian government is failing to fix this problem. A good proportion of the water pumps are completely non-functioning or barely functional and also in need of repair. Many people are left to drink dirty, pathogen filled water, or walk miles on end to the closest functional ground water pump.

Task/Goal Use machine learning models to predict the functionality of all ground water pumps found throughout the country of Tanzania. If models are accurate, this could help save the Tanzanian government a lot of time and money. Accurate models can help to cut the cost on needing workers drive out to every water pump to inspect them. The government can use this study to know exactly which pumps are working, need repair and which ones aren’t working at all.

Predict which water pumps are faulty to promote access to clean, potable water across Tanzania¶
